contributing guide (#1182)
weaveworks/weave-gitops: CONTRIBUTING.md

> # WIP: Internal contributing guide

Reviewer: 👍🏻

## Weave Gitops :heart:s your contributions

> Thank you for taking the time to contribute to weave gitops!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thank you for taking the time to contribute to Weave Gitops!
```

This guide **is a work in progress** but aims to cover all aspects of how to
interact with the project and how to get involved in development as smoothly as possible.

If we have missed anything you think should be included, or if anything is not
clear, we also accept contributions to this contribution doc :smile:.

## Testing
We have 3 layers of testing:
- Unit testing
- Integration testing
- Acceptance testing

We aim to follow the [testing pyramids best practises](https://martinfowler.com/articles/practical-test-pyramid.html)
with the focus on a large number of units tests, fewer integration tests and even fewer acceptance tests.

### Running unit tests
You can run `make unit-tests` from the top of the repository to run all of the unit tests.
As part of running the unit tests we will install any required dependencies for building
the code. See [dependencies](tools/dependencies.toml) for more information on whats installed.

### Running integration tests
The integration tests can be run using `make integration-tests`. They require some
extra environment variables to run:

- `GITHUB_ORG`- The name of the org that test repositories can be created in.

> if your a weaveworks employee you can use `weaveworks-gitops-test`

Reviewer: typo: If you're

> - `GITHUB_TOKEN`- Used to create, push and delete repoitories. Please ensure

Reviewer: typo: repositories.

the token has sufficient permissions, as deleting repositories is not part

> of the standard set of permissions a token is given.

Reviewer: Good callout that it's not standard 👍🏻

If you wish to run the full suite, you will also need the equivalent for gitlab:
- `GITLAB_TOKEN`
- `GITLAB_ORG`

However if you only want to test it against one of the providers, you can focus in

> the test suite manually

Reviewer: I'm not sure what "focus in the test suite manually" means, can you help me to follow? I appreciate I haven't run the tests so this might be obvious I'm missing.

Author: good call out! Going to link to the ginkgo docs on how to focus a test

### Running acceptance tests
The acceptance tests can be run using `make acceptance-tests`. They require the same
environment variables as the integration tests, with the following in addition:

- `WEGO_BIN_PATH`- The path to the `gitops` binary the tests should use. If you

> are want to test a locally built binary (created from `make bin`) then you can

Reviewer: This sentence doesn't quite read right to me. 
I would suggest moving the instruction of a locally built binary into it's own bullet. something like:

- To test a locally built binary which is created from `make bin`, you want to set it to `WEGO_BIN_PATH=$PWD/bin/gitops`

Author: good call out! Made the suggested change :smile:

set it to `WEGO_BIN_PATH=$PWD/bin/gitops`
- `IS_TEST_ENV`- If this value is set to anything, it indicates to the `gitops` binary
that it should deploy images using the `latest` tag, instead of the latest version.

#### Testing locally changes in acceptance tests

> As of right now its not easy to test your local code changes pass the acceptance test.

Reviewer: typo: it's. 

I appreciate that this is called out and clear our current reality is a bit tricky. Hopefully we can make this easier soon 👍🏻

- Unit testing
- Integration testing
- Acceptance testing

We aim to follow the [testing pyramids best practises](https://martinfowler.com/articles/practical-test-pyramid.html)
with the focus on a large number of units tests, fewer integration tests and even fewer acceptance tests.

### Running unit tests
You can run `make unit-tests` from the top of the repository to run all of the unit tests.
As part of running the unit tests we will install any required dependencies for building
the code. See [dependencies](tools/dependencies.toml) for more information on whats installed.

### Running integration tests
The integration tests can be run using `make integration-tests`. They require some
extra environment variables to run:

- `GITHUB_ORG`- The name of the org that test repositories can be created in.
if you're a weaveworks employee you can use `weaveworks-gitops-test`
- `GITHUB_TOKEN`- Used to create, push and delete repositories. Please ensure
the token has sufficient permissions, as deleting repositories is not part
of the standard set of permissions a token is given.

If you wish to run the full suite, you will also need the equivalent for gitlab:
- `GITLAB_TOKEN`

> - `GITLAB_ORG`

Reviewer 3: I assume the equivalent also means that there are weavework test repos that one can use as with Github?

Author: no idea :see_no_evil: never used/touched gitlab

However if you only want to test it against one of the providers, use [ginkgos focus](

> https://onsi.github.io/ginkgo/#focused-specs) feature to run the tests for one provider.

Reviewer 3: Would be nice to see an example of that. Like, which file contains that test which I can focus on and still runs the whole suite except for the other providers. If I'm a newcomer I have no idea where the tests are and which part of the description I should focus on. Is it the `Description` or the `Context` etc. Especially if I'm also new to ginkgo. :)

Author: yeah was torn on how deep to go on this... like anything I copy here could be instantly out of date

Reviewer 3: Just paste in a tiny example from one of the files with a `FDescribe`. I think that would be sufficient.

Author: done

### Running acceptance tests
The acceptance tests can be run using `make acceptance-tests`. They require the same
environment variables as the integration tests, with the following in addition:

- `WEGO_BIN_PATH`- The path to the `gitops` binary the tests should use. To test a locally
built binary which is created from `make bin`, you want to set it to `WEGO_BIN_PATH=$PWD/bin/gitops`.
- `IS_TEST_ENV`- If this value is set to anything, it indicates to the `gitops` binary
that it should deploy images using the `latest` tag, instead of the latest version.

> #### Testing locally changes in acceptance tests

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Testing local changes with acceptance tests
```

> As of right now it's not easy to test your local code changes pass the acceptance test.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As of right now, it's not easy to test your local code changes with acceptance tests.
```

Until [#1158](https://github.com/weaveworks/weave-gitops/issues/1158) is resolved you must:

1. Manually build and push the `wego-app` docker image to your own registry. Example:
`docker build -f Dockerfile -t aclevernameww/wego-app:latest . && docker push aclevernameww/wego-app:latest`
2. Update the `manifests/wego-app/deployment.yaml.tpl` to use your registry. Example:

> `image: aclevernameww/wego-app:{{.Version}})

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`image: aclevernameww/wego-app:{{.Version}})`
```

If we have missed anything you think should be included, or if anything is not
clear, we also accept contributions to this contribution doc :smile:.

## Building the binary
To build the `gitops` binary locally you can run `make bin`. This will create a `gitops`
binary in the `bin/` directory.

## Testing
We have 3 layers of testing:
- Unit testing
- Integration testing
- Acceptance testing

We aim to follow the [testing pyramids best practises](https://martinfowler.com/articles/practical-test-pyramid.html)
with the focus on a large number of units tests, fewer integration tests and even fewer acceptance tests.

### Running unit tests
You can run `make unit-tests` from the top of the repository to run all of the unit tests.
As part of running the unit tests we will install any required dependencies for building
the code. See [dependencies](tools/dependencies.toml) for more information on what's installed.

### Running integration tests
The integration tests can be run using `make integration-tests`. They require some
extra environment variables to run:

- `GITHUB_ORG`- The name of the org that test repositories can be created in.

> if you're a weaveworks employee you can use `weaveworks-gitops-test`

Reviewer 5: Nit:
```suggestion
If you're a weaveworks employee you can use `weaveworks-gitops-test`
```

- `GITHUB_TOKEN`- Used to create, push and delete repositories. Please ensure
the token has sufficient permissions, as deleting repositories is not part
of the standard set of permissions a token is given.

If you wish to run the full suite, you will also need the equivalent for gitlab:
- `GITLAB_TOKEN`
- `GITLAB_ORG`

However if you only want to test it against one of the providers, use [ginkgos focus](
https://onsi.github.io/ginkgo/#focused-specs) feature to run the tests for one provider.
Example:
```
cat test/integration/server/add_test.go
...
 FContext("GitHub", func() {
```

### Running acceptance tests
The acceptance tests can be run using `make acceptance-tests`. They require the same
environment variables as the integration tests, with the following in addition:

- `WEGO_BIN_PATH`- The path to the `gitops` binary the tests should use. To test a locally
built binary which is created from `make bin`, you want to set it to `WEGO_BIN_PATH=$PWD/bin/gitops`.

> - `IS_TEST_ENV`- If this value is set to anything, it indicates to the `gitops` binary

Reviewer 5: Nit: 
```suggestion
- `IS_TEST_ENV`- If this environment variable is set to anything, it indicates to the `gitops` binary
```
